# INFM 350: Course Contract

## A word from the instructor

> In most learning situations in life outside of school, grades are never given. The learning that occurs in cooking, dance, or yoga studios do not use any grading. Why? In these “studio” cases, it seems meaningless to give students grades, and yet without any grades, those students get better at yoga, dance, and cooking.
>
> Asao Inoue, "160W's Grading Contract"

Nearly everything you've done during your time at various learning institutions has resolved to single point: the final grade. Whether this was a quarterly, annual, or semi-annual grade (i.e. semester grade), your education has formatted you towards achieving the best letter grade outcome possible. That's not (mostly) how this course goes, however.

I write above that this course will "mostly" not be contingent on grades. In fact, I want you to exile the idea of grading from your brain completely. The idea of failure often precludes us from taking risks for fear that we'll look or feel inferior or, at worst, be incapable of understanding a concept. Unfortunately, the inevitability of letter grades often amplifies that fear, as it's a very real consequence.

This is especially true here, in a course that requires you to make creative product that, while generated, is still representative of your _personal_ work. I care more about your excitement and confidence with the material than I do about grades. Grades are the _worst_.

But this course is less about "making the grade" than it is giving you skills and tools to conquer problems and encounter the strange quasi-real future we're already in; one where much of the text you already read might be generated by models about which the common wisdom seems to hold that _they will never stop getting better_ or at least, they'll never get _worse_.

This semester -- at least up to the point where the college requires that I assign you an individual letter grade -- is _ungraded_, meaning you will never see an actual letter grade from me on an assignment. Instead, I will provide formative feedback. Does that mean you can't get anything _wrong_? No, of course not. You'll still have plenty of opportunity and encouragement to fail. All this means is that `failure != "F"`. The only thing that leads to failure here is inauthentic effort.

At the end of the semester, I have to give you a grade. But, following this contract should take care of that.

## Contract stipulations

Given that this course relies on process, this contract shapes itself around the idea that students engage and participate at a meaningful level.

### The `Basic Grade`

* All students who meet the basic covenants of this contract will earn an individual letter grade of `B` in this course.

### Grading

There are opportunities for earning grades higher than the `Basic Grade`.

|Final letter grade |Discussion lead |Projects completed |Letters completed |Final project |
|-------------------|----------------|-------------------|------------------|--------------|
|A                  |✓               |11                 |18                |✓            |
|A-                 |✓               |10                 |15                |✓            |
|B+                 |✓               |9                  |12                |✓            |
|B                  |✓               |9                  |9                 |✓            |

### Grades lower than the `Basic Grade`

### `Incomplete` assignments

Assignments which do not fulfill all of the basic requirements for a given week will be defined as `Incomplete`. For each `Incomplete` assignment,
a student's letter grade will be reduced by one-half a grade (i.e. a `B` becomes a `B-`).

Instances in which students submit an assignment, but do not attend the workshop for which they are scheduled fall under this category unless arrangements have been made to have a student act as a delegate, taking notes on and relaying a high-level review of the discussion to the writer. Should circumstances arise that prevent the writer from attending a workshop session, the instructor may be flexible about this policy.

### `Ignored` assignments

Assignments which do not display any attempt at completion (i.e. the GitHub Classroom Bot is the last `commit`er) will be defined as `Ignored` assignments. For each `Ignored` assignment, a student's letter grade is reduced by one whole letter (i.e. a `B` becomes a `C`).

Instances in which students do not submit work for a workshop count as `Ignored` assignments, even if that assignment is turned in later unless arrangements have been made or circumstances warrant that this rule not be applied.

#### `Ignored` assignments and the final project

If a student fails to submit the final project, their course grade for the semester will be an `F`.

### Participation in workshop

This is as much an informatics course as it is a writing workshop; it's strange hybrid of both. However, our collective exploration of _trying out_ concepts and approaches is the heart of this course. Each workshop will feature a few different small "mechanics," that is "rules," shared when the assignment is released to the class.

That written, there are some ground rules:

* don't make disparaging remarks about other students' work; full stop.
* all students should come prepared, though "prepared" means different things depending on expected responsbilities for a given week
* students should consider both the _code_/_procedure_ and their output; questions may come up about either or both
* keep the discussion of the piece to relevant or clearly-related topics
* authors can talk during the workshop, though the workshop leader(s) may limit the length of their responses
* don't dominate the discussion; I leave this to your discretion as to what that means, but may guide the conversation toward folks who haven't spoken much

The above list is subject to change as we discuss how we want to shape our work.

### Course platforms

On course platforms used for the duration of the semester:

* Use all platforms for appropiate class reasons 
* Follow the instructions while using the platforms
* Keeping "up-to-date" with platforms may require seeking additional extra-curricular knowledge
  * For example, using Markdown in Discord
* Respect others' thoughts, time, and contributions to either discussion or code product
* Check course platforms often -- at least twice a day
  * The best times to review are often the beginning and ends of a day
    * i.e.: 8:00 (beginning), 18:00 (end)

In addition, I suggest that you at least download and install the Discord application, rather than use the web interface. This is not required, but will help greatly with your ability to keep up with notifications.

### Using office hours

When using office hours:

* come in prepared with questions, a topic, or objective
  * to achieve this, please add notes about expected topic(s) to a Google Calendar slot reservation (for instructor calendar)
* be prepared to receive feedback, understanding that typically this means completing revisions on what ever you are working on
* have all assignments ready to discuss with the Professor
* not rely only on office hours (i.e. work should be attempted first)
 
### Attendance

Especially in precarious times like those in which we find ourselves, I _cannot_ and _will not_ require you to be physically present for class sessions. However, if you feel well and comfortable, I (and your peers) ask that you attend class.

As many of your note, this isn't something that I provide grading criteria for. I don't really have an interest in directly grading attendance. However, _not attending_ traditionally shows up in final products and, thereby, grades. It's important to remember that attendance and participation are closely related. Not doing either severely restricts your ability to succeed in the course. 

This course assumes additional expectations about presence (e.g. for workshops), though this is not directly graded _as_ attendance. See [Grading](#grading) for more details.